``ukbparse`` changelog
======================


0.9.0 (Thursday 6th December 2018)
----------------------------------


Added
^^^^^


* Infrastructure for automatic deployment to PyPI and Zenodo.


Changed
^^^^^^^


* Improved ``--dry_run`` output formatting.


0.8.0
-----


Added
^^^^^


* New ``--dry_run`` command-line option, which prints a summary of the cleaning
  and processing that would take place.


0.7.1
-----


Fixed
^^^^^


* Fixed a bug in the :func:`.icd10.saveCodes` function.


0.7.0
-----


Changed
^^^^^^^


* Small refactorings in :mod:`ukbparse.config` so that command line arguments
  can be logged easily.


0.6.3
-----


Changed
^^^^^^^


* Minor updates to avoid deprecation warnings.


0.6.2
-----


Fixed
^^^^^


* Fixed a bug with the ``--import_all`` option, where an error would be thrown
  if a specifically requested variable was removed during processing.


0.6.1
-----


Changed
^^^^^^^


* Changed default processing for variables 41202/41204 so they are binarised
  *within* visit.


0.6.0
-----


Added
^^^^^


* New ``--import_all`` and ``--unknown_vars_file`` options for outputting
  information about previously unknown variables/columns.


Changed
^^^^^^^


* Changed processing function return value interface - see the
  :mod:`.processing_functions` module for details.


0.5.0
-----


Added
^^^^^


* Ability to export a mapping file containing the numeric values that ICD10
  codes have been converted into - see the ``--icd10_map_file`` argument.


Changed
^^^^^^^


* Changes to default processing - all ICD10 variables are binarised by default.
  Sparsity/redundancy tests happen at the end, so that columns generated by
  previous steps are tested.


Fixed
^^^^^


* :meth:`.HDFStoreCollection.loc` method returns a ``pandas.DataFrame`` when
  a list of columns are indexed, and a ``pandas.Series`` when a single column
  is indexed.


0.4.1
-----


Changed
^^^^^^^


* Updates to variable table for UKBiobank spirometry variables.


0.4.0
-----


Added
^^^^^


* New :func:`.parseSpirometryData` function for parsing spirometry data
  (i.e. `UKBiobank variable 3066
  <https://biobank.ctsu.ox.ac.uk/crystal/field.cgi?id=3066>`_


Removed
^^^^^^^


* Removed the ``--disable_rename`` command line option, because having the
  columns renamed is really annoying.


0.3.3
-----


Changed
^^^^^^^


* Reverted the behaviour of :func:`.isSparse`.


0.3.2
-----


Changed
^^^^^^^


* Changed the behaviour of :func:`.isSparse` so that series which are *greater
  than* the ``minpres`` threshold pass, rather than *greater than or equal
  to*.


0.3.1
-----


Changed
^^^^^^^


* The :func:`.isSparse` function ignores the ``minpres`` argument if it
  is larger than the number of samples in the data set.


Fixed
^^^^^


* The :func:`.binariseCategorical` function now works on data with missing
  values.


0.3.0
-----


Added
^^^^^


* New :meth:`.DataTable.addColumns` method, so processing functions can
  now add new columns.
* New :func:`.binariseCategorical` processing function, which expands a
  categorical column into multiple binary columns, one for each unique
  value in the data.
* New :func:`.expandCompound` processing function, which expands a
  compound column into columns, one for each value in the compound data.
* Keyword arguments can now be used when specifying processing.


Fixed
^^^^^


* Fixed handling of non-numeric categorical variables


0.2.0
-----


Added
^^^^^

* Added a changelog file


Changed
^^^^^^^


* Updated variable/datacoding files to bring them in line with the latest
  Biobank data release.
